The Project Gutenberg EBook of Captain Billy's Whiz Bang, Vol. 2. No. 13,
October, 1920, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Captain Billy's Whiz Bang, Vol. 2. No. 13, October, 1920
       America's Magazine of Wit, Humor and Filosophy

Author: Various

Editor: W. H. Fawcett

Release Date: October 22, 2017 [EBook #55790]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPTAIN BILLY'S WHIZ BANG ***




Produced by David Edwards and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)









Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang, Vol. II. No. 13, October, 1920




AN OPEN LETTER


                                                      The Whiz Bang Farm,
                                    Rural Route No. 2, Robbinsdale, Minn.

To Our Readers:

With this issue, Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang discards swaddling clothes and
starts bounding on its second year of existence. In this number, which we
have termed “Our Annual,” the writer has taken the liberty to review many
of the stories and poems from the 12 previous issues. It is obvious that
a new publication must start with no circulation. If it strikes a popular
appeal in the heart-chord of human existence it succeeds; otherwise, it
sinks into journalistic oblivion.

Thanks to a legion of loyal readers and volunteer scribes, The Whiz Bang
has weathered the colicky and diarrhoetic stage of life. Our eye-teeth
have been cut and the worst is over. This little family journal of uplift
has no one to thank but its readers. It is your magazine and it is you
who send in the snappy articles to fill its pages each month. Again we
extend our heartiest thanks.

We are now spread from the mackerel munching macaroons of Manhattan’s
bright isle to the squawking squabs of sunny California; from the wily,
wicked pole-cats of Northern Minnesota to the perk and prim creoles of
feverish Orleans.

On this month, the month of our birth, the editor feels as happy as a kid
sucking a lollypop and smearing its chin with an ice cream cone. All we
lack to complete the illusion is about three fingers in a wash-tub. Adios
until November rolls ’round.

                                                           CAPTAIN BILLY.




                             [Illustration]

                            _Captain Billy’s
                               Whiz Bang_

                               OUR MOTTO:
                           “_Make It Snappy_”

                   October, 1920      Vol. II. No. 13

                          Published Monthly by
                    W. H. Fawcett, Rural Route No. 2
                        at Robbinsdale, Minnesota

    Entered as second-class matter May 1, 1920, at the post office at
         Robbinsdale, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

                 _Price 25 cents_      _$2.50 per year_

     _“We have room for but one soul loyalty and that is loyalty to
               the American People”--Theodore Roosevelt._

                             Copyright 1920
                            By W. H. Fawcett

                             [Illustration]

     _Edited by a Spanish and World War Veteran and dedicated to the
      fighting forces of the United States, past, present and future._




_Skipping with the Skipper_


Just one short year ago, under the above caption: “Skipping With the
Skipper,” Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang exploded for the first time. It was
the publisher’s idea at that time to compile a snappy joke-book for
former soldiers, sailors and marines living in the immediate vicinity of
the village of Robbinsdale. The demand greatly exceeded the initial press
run, and we’ve been running ever since.

For the benefit of new readers, the opening explanation for our existence
on this mundane sphere is herewith re-published. It explains itself, I
believe:

    =Whiz-z Bang!!! We’re off and in our trail follows a mighty
    explosion of pedigreed bull. “Make It Snappy” is our motto.
    Snap! Pep! Ginger! Even more. The first issue of CAPTAIN BILLY’S
    WHIZ BANG is off the press and with its advent the editor and
    contributors hope to have added something really worth while to
    brighten the atmosphere of human existence. Captain Billy’s only
    and original WHIZ BANG will explode in every issue. No “duds”
    allowed in our monthly Literary Indigestion. Today we are the
    Cherry Sisters of journalism with the fond hopes for “Big Time”
    sometime.=

    =As the old saying goes, “Laugh and the world laughs with you,
    near beer and you drink alone.” If we dance we must pay the jazz
    band; no matter what we get we must “put up or shut up.” Doctors
    of Dope and Doctors of Divinity must have the price of our life
    and love and the undertaker smiles with a self-satisfied grin as
    our mortal flesh and bones are delivered to the charnel house.=

    =Therefore the motto of the WHIZ BANG will be: Be happy while
    you live; live a full life and while you are living, live on
    the square so you may be able to follow that quaint western
    philosophy and look every man in the face and tell him to go to
    Hell.=

    =Please do not get the impression from the title page that the
    WHIZ BANG is to be a military publication only. There will be 100
    laughs for the service man and 97¼ laughs for the civilian. We
    will give the soldier, sailor and marine the benefit of two and
    three-quarters per cent because we believe he is fairly entitled
    to it. (Brewers please note.)=

    =THE WHIZ BANG is only in its infancy, so look for the November
    issue. Then we will burst out and explode into a full-grown bull.
    We will be fatter, lovelier, snappier and juicier and--oh, girls,
    we just hate to tell you. Watch for Mr. November and see if we
    don’t make Bill Bryan’s Commoner drier than an Algerian caravan
    in the Sahara desert, 20 miles from the oasic grog shop and the
    Cliquot Special two weeks overdue. The bull is only half grown
    and he surely will be some lively animal next month when we sling
    him over to our readers.=

    =Those of us who have lived through the past five years have the
    satisfaction of knowing that we have seen the mightiest and most
    stirring five years in history, and we are watching from day to
    day the unfolding and ending of the colossal drama. Never has
    there been such a crashing of empires, such a falling of thrones,
    such righting of wrongs and deliverance of the oppressed,
    such vivid demonstration of the wickedness, the folly and the
    weakness, the nobility, the wisdom and the courage of which human
    nature is capable.=

    =As a grand finale, an alleviation from the terrific strain,
    Billy’s WHIZ BANG will come as a relieving Balsam--an ointment
    on the checkered skein of life. Please remember that the
    oldest truths are the freshest. They are rich with the blood
    of humanity. As the apple tree in your yard may be a sprout
    from the apple tree in the Garden of Eden, so the idea that
    just came to you may be the same that struck King Solomon.
    Thoughts are deciduous, as trees, and appear green and fresh to
    each generation, and like desert soil, we are unfurrowed and
    unfettered. THE EDITOR.=




_The Crap Shooting Major_

By SKIPPER BILL.


This is a story of a major in the Motor Mechanics brigade, Signal Corps,
U. S. Army,--A. C. Rebadow, by name. He hails from the city of Buffalo,
N. Y., where he was employed in an automobile manufacturing plant and
received his commission because of the supposition that he was a motor
sharp.

“Soldiering” and gambling go hand in hand. The greatest indoor sport
of the military man is to riffle the “pasteboards,” while his outdoor
pastime consists of blowing on a pair of galloping dominoes as he prays
for a “natural” to rear itself heavenward. Rebadow is neither soldier nor
gambler but a dyed-in-the-wool squawker.

The “major’s” system was simple. If he lost he merely issued checks
on his bank at Tonawanda, N. Y., and then “Stopped Payment,” on them.
So simple, in fact, that his racial instinct led him promptly to the
telegraph office to void the payment.

The Major relied upon military discipline to save him from his outraged
victims. He believed that none would have nerve enough to make complaint
against his ungentlemanly and indecent behavior, but at least on one
occasion he reckoned without his host. That was at Camp Hancock,
Georgia, where Rebadow lost $400 during several days’ indulgence at
craps. The victim, however, took the matter up with the superior officers.

Rebadow was traced to an air post far behind the whiz bangs’ zone where
he possibly imagined himself safe from his debtors as well as from the
Jerries. This is a letter which compelled payment. It was written by one
superior officer to another, the commandant at the air post where Rebadow
was then situated:

“1. It is requested that the Commanding Officer of A. A. A. P. No. 1
take this matter up personally with Major Rebadow, as the following
are the facts in the case, as can be supported by the record of the
Motor Mechanics Brigade, which records I have personally inspected.
Several months ago an exhaustive investigation of the merits of this
case was made and it was shown that Major Rebadow was entirely in the
wrong in this matter and was dropped on account of an indorsement he
signed in which he stated he would make good the amount of these checks,
approximately $400.

“2. The unprincipled manner in which Major Rebadow now treats this matter
is considered so reprehensible that effort is being made to secure the
forwarding of the personal file of Major Rebadow and he may be informed
that unless this account has been settled by the time those records are
received that this office will make all efforts to have Major Rebadow
brought to trial as a result of his derelictions.”

Needless to say, Major Rebadow cowered before the eye of his superior
officer and forthwith repaid the broken pledge.

I look back on my days in the ranks, where a man was a man, true blue and
shorn of falsity, insolence, domineering and double-crossing ways. They
were the days when we got paid together, painted the town together, and
went broke together, where every man “shot square” with his “buddie.”

As for this crap-shooting major, he is in civies again and military
discipline will afford him no protection for such breeches.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Willie and Mollie played in the sand,
      Indulging in youthful folly;
    The sun was hot on Willie’s back,
      And the sand was hot to Mollie.

       *       *       *       *       *

’Twas Ever Thus

Every time we see an article offered at an uncommonly low price--whether
it be shoes, prunes, fountain pens, wood blocks, or a personal service of
some kind--we are reminded of Chief Big Smoke.

The owner of this picturesque name was a copper-colored native employed
as a missionary to his fellow smokes out in Oklahoma. A tourist once
asked him what he did for a living.

“Umph!” said Big Smoke, “me preachum.”

“That so? What do you get for preaching?”

“Me get ten dollars a year.”

“Well,” commented the white man, “that’s d----n poor pay.”

“Umph!” replied Big Smoke, “me d----n poor preacher.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The Eternal Feminine

Women want marriage and a home. They should. And there are more women
than men. Even before the war there was, in Europe and America, an extra
sixth woman for every five men, and the sixth woman brings competition.
She bulls the market, and makes feminine sex solidarity impossible. And,
of course, added to that is the woman who requires three or four men to
make her happy, one to marry and support her, and one to take her to the
theatre and to luncheon at Delmonico’s, and generally fetch and carry for
her, and one to remember her as she was at nineteen and remain a bachelor
and have a selfish, delightful life, while blaming her.--Mary Roberts
Rinehart.

       *       *       *       *       *

Move Over

Bridget failed to get up one morning to cook breakfast for the Smith
family. Instead she yelled downstairs that she was “pretty sick.”

Mr. Smith promptly summoned his family doctor who gave the “sick” servant
a thorough examination. The doctor was unable to find anything wrong with
Bridget.

“My good woman,” he said, “you’re not sick at all.”

“I know I’m not,” Bridget replied, “but the Smiths owe me $20 and I’m
going to stay in bed until they pay me.”

“Well, if that’s the case, move over; they owe me $50.”




_Golightly Highballs_

BY REV. “GOLIGHTLY” MORRILL.


Mexico

V. C. in Vera Cruz stands for Venereal City. “El Dictamen” is the leading
newspaper. It has only four pages, yet whole columns are filled with
advertised cures for scrofula, syphilis, locomotor-ataxia and all the
rotten ills that licentious Latin-America is heir to. The space we give
to weather reports on the front page, or to special news with extra
headlines, is given up here to nauseating advertisements. The first thing
one sees as he enters the plaza are billboards, walls and buildings with
sure-cure advertisements.

L. A. in Latin America stands for “licentious animals.” In Vera Cruz the
principal male pastime is to talk about girls and not of God. From 4 P.
M. to 2 A. M. men sit in the plaza portales drinking, smoking and talking
about the women who pass by. The leading subject of “town talk” is girls,
the one they went to the movie with last, the other one the night before,
and the one they hope to get tonight.

The people make themselves a sewer for immoral filth, court the devil
Lust that eats and burns up their blood; are spendthrifts of body and
soul; waste their inheritance to purchase dirty, loathed disease; pawn
their bodies to a dry-rot evil; make themselves patients for Lust’s
rendezvous, a hospital, where their bill of fare is pills, not beef, and
the doctor’s bill is longer than the moral law they have violated. What
I have written here about Vera Cruz morals applies to the rest of Mexico
where conditions are the same or worse.

The Ten Commandments are little in evidence in the country and free love
prevails with the fruit of seventy-five per cent of illegitimate births.
A respectable bachelor is not qualified to enter society until several
children call him “papa.” Few men are without a separate establishment
for affinities.


Honolulu

The Hawaiians are out and out in their dancing. They do not gloss it over
and wear no hypocritical fig-leaves. They do not throw masks or mantles
over their viciousness, under the guise of religious charity balls and
philanthropic society parties. The hula is a hip dance, but the Hawaiians
are not “hip”--ocritical in doing it. The dance is not sad or hippish but
one of joy.

I have seen many dances--the Apache in Paris, du ventre in Cairo, the
can-can in Buenos Aires, and with money here in Honolulu one can arrange
with a chauffeur or at a hula house to see a hula combining all these
vile and violent exhibitions. It is a composite of the compost of all
dirty dances, most delightfully depraved, innocent of decency and shame,
the dancers being quite careless about the exposure of their legs,
arms and charms. What captivating indelicacy, so disturbing to the
looker-on. But this it not the native hula. There is sufficient of the
sun and volcano without it. The whites have taken away the native naivete
and added their own nastiness. As a physiological study the dance is
informing. In antiquity these antics were a religious service, combining
poetry, pantomime and passion. The old edition of the heathen hula dance
has been expurgated, but Christian foot-notes suggest more.

At one hula house I witnessed an unscheduled fight between several
sailors who had quarreled over the charms of a hula girl with the result
of broken heads, hearts and furniture. The native proprietor welcomed us
with characteristic Hawaiian hospitality--we could eat, drink and stay as
long as we pleased--all night in fact, with his hula girls for company. I
thanked him for his ancient, beautiful and unbounded generosity but told
him I was married and a minister, although he seemed unable to understand
why that should make any difference with me, since it made little to some
of the local clergy and laity.

One day at high noon, not night, I saw several native women bathing at
Waikiki beach. All they had on was a holoku night-gown that was as good
as nothing when wet. Three white, male strangers sauntered up from the
nearby hotel, waded in, threw their arms around the girls and were guilty
of “divers” familiarities. The girls didn’t object to the conduct of the
boys. I couldn’t help seeing or thinking whether the fishes swam away or
stayed and blushed all colors. Here was a “freedom of the seas” I refer
to the naval board for diplomatic discussion.

God’s righteousness is like the great mountains. I often thought, as I
marvelled at the islands’ scenery, that there are sermons in stones, but
men do not listen; summits preach high ideals and purity, but people are
deaf; and nature’s green only looks down on the mud and mire of lucre,
lies, lust and laziness.


Havana

Havana is a fool’s Paradise--a lunatic limbo for people with loud
clothes, lots of money, loose morals and light heads. It is the place
where bad folks go to have a good time. The more disreputable a city is,
the more popular it is to high society.

I have visited Havana many times and found the H in its name stood for
Hell, not Heaven. On a recent sojourn I asked a traveling companion what
the state of religion was and if Havana’s morals were improved. “Oh, yes,
there has been a great reformation.” He had scarcely made this gratifying
statement when a young man came up to me and showed some vile postcards
and postals which he offered for sale. This did not happen in a side
street at night, but in Central Park at noon.

Havana has reformed! The city has no “segregation,” but you may walk for
miles along streets to the waterfront and find every other house with a
seductive senorita at the door or window with extended hand or winsome
voice urging you in broken Spanish or English to forsake the counsel of
your mother’s Bible. Regular saloons and concert halls had scores of the
women of the town at the tables sitting with motley men, while glasses
clinked and phonographs scratched their screechy music. This was all bad
enough but the lowest hell was reached when I saw a woman standing in the
doorway offering to sell a girl of about 14 who stood by her side. At the
end of certain streets the police were on watch to keep the women off
the sidewalks, and so maintain an appearance of decency and order. Other
places were unwatched and free.

Havana has reformed! The sporting women of the town advertise in several
of the local magazines, where you find their photos, house address and
some such paragraph in Spanish or in English for the benefit of the
American tourist: “Tourist! Do you wish a good house in Havana, with
plenty of women, pretty and elegant? Go to ---- street, No. ----, ask for
Helena. Go today.” Here’s another: “Artistic Academy. If you want a place
for pleasure and a good time, go to ----, plenty of nice girls.” Another
want ad reads: “Ladies from all nations,” and still another, “Violeta
has moved to ---- street, and with her Parisian arts welcomes the Havana
public.”

Poor pleasure-seekers, whose law is fashion and folly their pursuit!
Bubbles on the wave of pleasure, a tracery on the sand which Time’s tide
will soon erase. Every year the siren voice of Havana calls, “Come in
your private yacht on the Gulf Stream of gold; come with full purse and
empty head and heart; come, you ‘best’ society, that you may be seen at
your worst; come, all ye who would desert the temple of your mind and
soul for this Circe’s palace of fleshy pleasures!”


Central America

Hamlet found something “rotten in the state of Denmark,” but it was sweet
compared with what I discovered in Central America--the land of eruption
and corruption, of dirt, disease, destitution, darkness, dilapidation,
despots, delay, debt, deviltry and degeneracy, where a conservative
estimate makes 90 per cent of the women immoral, 95 per cent of the men
thieves, and 100 per cent of the population liars.

While strolling about the sultry seaport of Amapala, Spanish Honduras,
and thinking of Morazan, the great Honduran liberator, two deceitful
dames sought to enslave me. I was a stranger and they tried to take me
in--their home nearby. Fortunately a policeman came up and warned me in
broken English that these girls were “always--very--bad--to--everybody.”
Each one took my arm and I thought it was time to take to my legs and
get away. Anticipating my flight, one of them sprang upon me, wrapped
her nether limbs about my waist and her arms around my neck. Thus in
broad daylight in the heart of the town and in full view of the passerby
I was attacked and assaulted. What a shipwreck of character might have
happened had I landed at night! I hurried back to the ship and sought the
seclusion my cabin afforded. The captain congratulated me on my narrow
escape and informed me that on nearly every trip to this port native
women of the town attempt to smuggle themselves at night on board to
exchange their morals for the sailors’ money.


Panama

The last time I visited the Panama Canal it was closed, but the town was
wide open. Former streets called straight were crooked and some rescued
territory had relapsed. Just off the main street the scarlet woman
and the red light flourished and flaunted. Posing as bar-girls these
women came out boldly with the bar-sinister of their profession, came
with forbidden fruit from the “Cocoa Grove,” and exposed it for sale
on West Sixteenth street, contaminating the young. The groves may have
been God’s first temples, but not this Panama “Cocoa” one. Here Satan
conducts services every day of the year and passion-fruit is offered all
who walk its thoroughfares. One finds all colors, classes and conditions
of carnality. The U. S. soldiers are the police because the Panamanian
police hate our boys sober or drunk, and when our boys had a fight the
Panamanians beat them up. There are dens of high and low degree, full of
filth, profanity, drunkenness, disease and debauchery, I know, for I saw,
and I saw because I was there for local color and it was black enough.

Panama is famous for its canal, the wedlock of the oceans, but the
city Panama is infamous, knows little of the family word “wedlock” and
its red light “Cocoa Light” would make the fabled Daphne Grove wither
up with envy. From the first to the fifteenth of each month the U.
S. soldiers receive their pay and spend a large amount of it here in
wine, women and song. In this pandemonium of profligacy, one may see,
at any hour of the day or night, a brave soldier boy, intoxicated with
love or liquor, sitting in a doorway with a half-dressed, bare-legged
girl in his lap. These girls are o. k.’d by an M. D. twice a week and
pronounced all right. Our soldiers cannot leave camp and visit them
without a card certificate of good character. After they have made a
night of it the boys repair to the “House of Lords” in the district
and receive a bath and inoculation of anti-venereal dope. If they fail
to take this treatment and are contaminated, they suffer more ways than
one, being compelled to pay a fine. This is all too bad. Pleasures pure
and simple should be given them at camp or in barracks. As it is, many
of them are “shot to hell” before they ever go to war. If they have any
extra money, strength or inclination, they may hit the opium-pipe, buy
a get-rich-quick lottery ticket, or on Sunday attend a bullfight. A
modern St. Anthony would find it difficult to withstand the temptations
of this zone. More than one Pan-American religious conference is needed
to make the moral atmosphere as pure as the city streets are clean. It
is a bigger job to kill the devil than to exterminate the yellow-fever
mosquito.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friendship and Love

What causes the majority of women to be so little touched by friendship
is that it is insipid when they have once tasted of love.

       *       *       *       *       *

She Quit the Union

A party went to the opera and occupied a box. One of the men saw a
raveling on the shoulder of one of the ladies. He picked it, and it kept
on coming. He pulled and pulled till he had a tremendous mass, which he
threw behind the door. Some days after the men met and talked it over.
One of them said: “My wife had a good time, but she cannot figure out how
she lost her union suit.”




_Highty-tighty Aphrodite_


At present, partly owing to what is very modestly called “barefoot”
dancing, a severe season of clothelessness prevails; and the
aforementioned exercises afford the public quite a fair idea of “the most
admirable spectacle in nature”--that is to say, bowlegs, knock-knees,
thick ankles, spray feet, shoulders scraggy or pudgy, knees bony or
lumpy, and weirdly shaped legs.

The modernist poets also have been seized by the mania for nudity--but
let us hope that with them it is rather theory than practice; for the
average literator is not usually “a dream of form in days of thought.”
One mocking rhymester thus makes game of such poetic aspirations:

    All the poets have been stripping,
    Quaintly into moonbeams slipping,
    Running out like wild Bacchantes,
    Minus lingerie and panties.
    Never knew of such a frantic
    Belvederean, corybantic,
    Highty-tighty Aphrodite,
    Stepping out without a nightie.

One of these modernist bards puts her own fancies into the brain of an
old-time lady, stiff in pink and silver brocade, as she walks in a prim
garden awaiting the coming of her suitor. She would like to leave “all
that pink and silver crumpled on the ground”; for,

    Underneath my stiffened gown
    Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin.

Thus divested of raiment, “I would be the pink and silver as I ran along
the paths,” and her lover, seeing her, would pursue “till he caught me
in the shade.” A writer of free verse is more candid; it is herself she
would disrobe. “Since the earliest days I have dressed myself in fanciful
clothes,” she says, trying to express herself in this manner; but now she
is weary of putting “romance and fantasy into my raiment.” She realizes
that “my clothes are not me, myself”; hence the stern resolve:

    I think I shall go naked into the streets,
    And wander unclothed into people’s parlors.
    The incredulous eyes of the bewildered world
    Might give me back my true image ...
    Maybe in the glances of others
    I would find out what I really am.

Doubtless she would; but perhaps not exactly as she means it. Wandering
“unclothed into people’s parlors,” if police vigilance could be eluded,
might be a way of seeing ourselves as others see us, since the owners of
the parlors would probably be startled into candid comment, instead of,
as usual, waiting until the unclad back of the visitant was turned. It
would be a happy arrangement if only the truly symmetrical would indulge
in semi-nudity. Such exhibitions are a form of female vanity; but if the
average woman will but realize it, she owes any admiration she may excite
to the saving graces of clothes. If she is wise she will foster the
illusion. As a poet of another era expressed it, “Oh, the little less,
and what worlds away!”




_In the Grip of a Dream_


The dreamer is with us. From early youth there comes anon a time when the
sense of great loneliness and mysticism leads one out to the wilderness
of the Dream God. Conceptions of dreams and of love are two difficult
tasks, but Robert W. Chambers seems to have made greater headway than
other authors. In his book, “The Danger Mark,” he thus describes the
feelings that passed over poor, troubled Geraldine:

“We’re pretty young yet, Geraldine.... I never saw a girl I cared for
as I might have cared for you. It’s true, no matter what I have done,
or may do.... But you’re quite right, a man of that sort isn’t to be
considered,” he laughed and pulled on one glove, “only--I knew as soon
as I saw you that it was to be you or--everybody. First, it was anybody;
then it was you--now it’s everybody. Good-bye.”

“Good-bye,” she managed to say. The dizzy waves swayed her; she rested
her cheeks between both hands and, leaning there heavily, closed her eyes
to fight against it. She had been seated on the side of a lounge; and
now, feeling blindly behind her, she moved the cushions aside, turned
and dropped among them, burying her blazing face. Over her the scorching
vertigo swept, subsided, rose, and swept again. Oh, the horror of
it!--the shame, the agonized surprise. What was this dreadful thing that,
for the second time, she had unwittingly done? And this time it was so
much more terrible. How could such an accident have happened to her? How
could she face her own soul in the disgrace of it?

Fear, loathing, frightened incredulity that this could really be herself,
stiffened her body, and clinched her hands under her parted lips. On them
her hot breath fell irregularly.

Rigid, motionless, she lay, breathing faster and more feverishly. Tears
came after a long while, and with them relaxation and lassitude. She felt
that the dreadful thing which had seized and held her was letting go its
hold, was freeing her body and mind; and as it slowly released her and
passed on its terrible silent way, she awoke and sat up with a frightened
cry, to find herself lying on her own bed in utter darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

In France, we are told, the English officers stepped about as though they
owned the whole d----d country, whereas

The Americans walked about as though they didn’t give a d----n who owned
the country.

       *       *       *       *       *

New York liquor spotters have discovered liquor in baby dolls. That’s
nothing new. Lots of baldheads have been buying wine for baby dolls in
New York for generations!




_Questions and Answers_


=Dear Captain Billy=--I am 15 years old and have a sweetheart who is
just 18. He owns a flivver and wants me to go riding with him. Should
I?--=Lizzie.=

Walking is healthier.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--I have a girl friend who insists on writing to me
and demanding an answer. What shall I do?--=Charlie.=

Tell her to enclose a stamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--My husband is going out with another woman all the
time. What can I do to keep him home nights.--=Mrs. Brown.=

Take the other woman in as a boarder.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--I am a young lady attending a church college. Do
you think it would be all right for me to wear skirts 15 inches from the
ground.--=Marie.=

That depends on your height. If you are six feet tall it would be all
right, but if you are only 29 inches “tall,” Not Yet Marie.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Bill=--What would you call the unoccupied side of an old
maid’s bed?--=Simple Susan.=

No Man’s Land.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--My daughter has a sweetheart who just got back
from France. He talks to her in French and says: “Villa vouz promenade,”
or something like that, and then they go to some park. What does that
mean?--=Anxious Father.=

That’s all right, old man. Your daughter’s sweetheart was only asking her
to take a walk.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--What’s good for cooties?--=Returned Soldier.=

Bread crumbs.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--Please explain the uses of salpeter.--=Tommy.=

You are hereby referred to any soldier who will tell you its principal
usage is in the manufacture of high explosives.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Bill=--What’s worse than a cow with the cooties?--=Hi Ball.=

A horse with a buggy behind.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Bill=--We are organizing a new lodge in ’Frisco to be known
as the “Ancient Order of Modern Cavemen.” Will you kindly suggest a motto
for our lodge? Yours truly--=Rough on Cats.=

My suggestion is: “Catch ’em young; treat ’em rough, and tell ’em
nothin’.”

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--Why do they use castor oil in racing automobiles
and aeroplanes?--=Eunice.=

To make them run, of course, Eunice.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Bilious Billy=--What would you write about if the country went
wet again and you didn’t have the dry reformers to poke fun at and kid
about?--=Reginald Pewter.=

We cannot tell a lie--we wouldn’t be able to write during the first few
weeks.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Whiz Bang=--My husband, a returned soldier, did not get home until
3 o’clock this morning. He said he was at the Fort all night playing
golf. Do soldiers play golf in the middle of the night?--=Worried War
Bride.=

Yes, Worried Wifie, they do. One of the favorite sports of the naughty
doughboy is the game known as African golf. Two galloping dominoes are
used in place of a small ball. Instead of the greens, the latrine floor
is usually garnished with greenbacks and set off in silver. “Big Dick”
and “Little Joe” act as caddies and there is more cussing at a “flock
of box cars” than a minister foozling a putt. I indulged in a friendly
game of dancing dominoes last night with my old buddy, Mr. “Eighter from
Decatur.” “Jimmy Hicks” and “Long Legged Liz” were there, but before I
got through I had “fever in the South” and “crapped” out several points
under par.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Bill=--Please tell me what is golf?--=Ignoramus.=

Well, Ig., golf is a game where old men chase little balls around when
they are too old to chase anything else.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dearest Billy=--What’s the difference between a bachelor and a
worm?--=Andy Gump.=

Somebody told me there was no difference--the chickens get them both.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--I have been married a year and am the mother of
triplets who are now three months old. My husband has asked me to take
dancing lessons this winter because he says he cannot afford to have any
more children and that dancing will keep one’s mind off maternal cares.
What do you think about it?--=Triple Trixy.=

Dancing’s all right, Trixy, providing you tango in the morning, fox trot
in the afternoon and hesitate at night. Fine exercise, I say.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Bill=--I am struggling with myself to keep from falling
in love with a handsome football player because I heard that football
players were so terribly rough.--=Troubled Tillie.=

Move to the South Sea islands where it’s too hot to play football, or
else to Norway where the summer sport is fishing and in winter it’s too
cold to fish.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear William=--I recently met a cute little second lieutenant on the
train and am very anxious to get in touch with him. He said his name
was Joe Latrino and that he was in the Sanitary Corps. How may I find
him?--=Winsome Winnifred.=

Write to him in care of the Captain of the Head, U. S. Navy.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Billy=--What is the difference between Spanish Flu and
Spanish Fly?--=Swede Harriet.=

Spanish Flu is a disease. Spanish Fly is a drug, technically known as
cantharides and is used as a plaster to cure rheumatism.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Billy=--I am infatuated with a handsome young man from Akron,
Ohio, but when he comes to visit me in a neighboring village he acts so
embarrassed and appears always to be in a mood of deep thought. Do you
suppose he wants to pop the question but hasn’t the nerve?--=Hellenic
Helen.=

Now, Hellenic Helen, how in Hell’s Gate or Helena do I know? Overlook
his seeming taciturnity and remember that “deep rivers move with silent
majesty; small brooks are noisy as hell, and actions speak louder than
words.”

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Doctor Billy=--Please give me the definition of the spinal
column.--=Slippery Lizz.=

It’s a long disjointed bone, covered with knots--your head sits on one
end and you sit on the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Captain Bill=--What is meant by “bigamy?” =Dandy Dillon.=

Bigamy is a form of insanity which causes a man to pay three board bills
instead of two.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Billy=--What’s the definition of a “humdinger?”--=Iva Hangover.=

A man who can make a deaf and dumb girl say: “O, daddy.”

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Bilious Billy=--I was married last June and my wife wants me to
obtain some polish in my manners so suggests that I take music lessons.
What do you think about it?--=Silas Hopkins.=

It’s a very good idea, Si. You’ll soon gain a musical education by
playing second fiddle. But beware of the jazz.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Skipper=--Why is a certain specie of beans called Navy
Beans?--=Battle-Axe Liz.=

I dunno, Liz. You might as well ask me why I labelled The Whiz Bang an
“Explosion of Pedigreed Bull.” No reason at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dear Bill=--They say there are germs on money. Do you think, then,
it is safe for a poor working girl to carry her salary home in her
stocking?--=Sadie Woolworth.=

Perfectly safe, I’d say. A germ couldn’t live on a working girl’s salary.

       *       *       *       *       *

Betty’s Better Batter

    Betty Botter bought some butter,
    “But,” she said, “this butter’s bitter.
    If I put it in my batter,
    It will make my batter bitter.
    But a bit of better butter
    Will make my batter better.”
    So she bought a bit o’ butter
    Better than the bitter butter,
    And made her bitter batter better.
    So ’twas better Betty Botter
    Bought a bit of better butter.




_Seeing Los Angeles_

By JACK ANDREWS


Rubbernecking via the bally-ho wagons has received a terrible set-back in
the beautiful city of the Angels. No more will the gossip-hungry tourists
be fed on the scandal of the movie colony from a megaphone in the hands
of a husky-voiced “spieler.” An edict has gone forth forbidding these
caterers to wet the appetites of the unlearned and seeking visitors of
Los Angeles to exploit the “affairs” of the celebrities in press agent
fashion.

Los Angeles officials contend that it is no nice way to entertain their
guests where skeletons are said to exist in every closet in Hollywood.

There is no question but what the moving picture business has a lot of
deserving people in it, and some of the most admirable characters to be
found are of the cinema crowd, but we have recently had a few stellar
lights before the international eye in roles that were disgusting.

Here are some of the utterances the city fathers say should be dispensed
with:

    =“To your right, folks, is the home of Charlie, now used
    exclusively by Mildred and her mother, who is also her business
    manager.”=

    =“On your left is the home of Lottie, sister of Mary, who has a
    standing offer to fight any woman in the business.”=

    =“Jack, who is also one of the family, was living in the bungalow
    on yonder hill before his wife came back from New York. He left
    for Arkansas on the advice of his doctor the day before she
    arrived. He was also in the service during the war.”=

    =“Now folks this beautiful chateau on the right covering ten
    acres is the possession of an illiterate cow-puncher, whose
    salary is greater than the President’s.”=

    =“To your left is the former home of Mable, when she wasn’t at
    Vernon, and who is credited with staging a “come-back” after the
    star of Sennett passed below her horizon.”=

    =“The one who was once called “America’s Sweetheart” used to
    live in sweet simplicity in the white bungalow on the right. She
    used to be the idol of all children, but the page of her book is
    closed that the youth should learn aright.”=

Is it any wonder that these “rubberneck” wagons did a thriving business
in Los Angeles? It is said that each “spieler” tried to outrival his
competitor and from all reports the tourists were well supplied with
scandal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Girls should remember that when they confide in a married woman they are
probably confiding in her husband also.




_Whiz Bang Bunk_


As you show so shall we peep.

       *       *       *       *       *

A shimmy dancer has to struggle for a living.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many a rough neck is hidden by a silk collar.

       *       *       *       *       *

Be it ever so homely there’s no face like your own.

       *       *       *       *       *

You can’t feather your nest running after chickens.

       *       *       *       *       *

Keeping whisky in your home is no crime--it’s an art.

       *       *       *       *       *

Never slap children on the face; Nature provides a more suitable place.

       *       *       *       *       *

Close the saloon and save the boys; close the garage and save the girls.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sign in dry goods store: “Our woolen underwear will tickle you to death.”

       *       *       *       *       *

A Shorthorn Bull

A man called for hair restorer at the drug store. The new clerk gave
him something to apply. In the course of time the man returned with a
complaint. He declared the stuff powerful enough for some purpose but not
to grow hair. His head was as bald as ever but he was getting two big
lumps like cocoanuts on the top. The clerk looked at the empty bottle and
turned ghastly pale as he exclaimed “My Gawd, man, I’ve made a terrible
mistake. I gave you bust developer.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Gosh All Hemlocks!

    Listen my children and you shall hear
      Of the midnight ride of a bucket of beer;
    Up the street and down the line,
      I’ve got the bucket; who’s got the dime?

       *       *       *       *       *

“What’s Sauce for the Goose”

A colored woman and her husband were conversing together when the latter
happened to express curiosity as to the meaning of the word “propaganda”
which he was constantly running across in the newspapers.

“Well,” said his wife, “ah is not sure, but ah thinks ah know what
propaganda is. F’r instance, wif mah fust husband ah had one chile, and
two wif mah second. You’re mah third husband an’ we hain’t got none at
all. Now, I’m the propah goose, but you ain’t the propahganda.”




_Whiz Bang Editorials_

“_The Bull is Mightier Than the Bullet_”


Is the theater becoming immoral? The majority of critics claim it is.
The WHIZ BANG disagrees on this point. We claim the motion picture
development has stopped the sporadic growth of suggestive plays on the
legitimate stage.

The immoral, or at least suggestive plays made their first appearance
in any large number twenty years ago. Witness “Three Weeks,” “Sappho,”
“Du Barry,” and others, and still today you will find these plays in
oblivion. Together with them, the women who starred in such plays are
almost unheard of today. Most prominent among these is Olga Nethersole.

She was an English governess in the ’80’s and startled London with her
portrayals of “The Transgressor,” “Magda” and other productions of like
character.

Twenty years ago Miss Nethersole shocked two continents with her “Sappho
Kiss.” She always maintained that playing the parts of these easy women
would “make” her. Witness her interview of more than five years ago, in
which she is quoted as having said:

“People have not understood that I chose to play prostitutes because I
have felt it my work to aid the world by showing the suffering in it. If
I felt that I had not been chosen for this task I should never have given
my life to it.

“Do you know the story of Alexander Dumas, the younger? He was an
illegitimate son, whose father refused to wed his mother. Thereupon the
son gave up his life to the cause of woman and wrote his plays with the
suffering of woman uppermost. ‘Camille’ will live forever.

“I have felt that if I could show the suffering and the misery that
illicit passion causes I could do something for the world, could point a
way toward removing the evil.”

And today, Olga Nethersole’s prediction has fallen flat. Her name, or
the names of her mimics, no longer are blazoned on the electric signs of
Broadway. Olga Nethersole, and the principle for which she stood, are in
oblivion.

       *       *       *       *       *

This is the era of keepers, too. Our collective national appetite has
been entrusted to the keeping of four Bills. I refer to Bill Bryan, Billy
Sunday, Bill Anderson of the Antisaloon League and Billy-Be-Damned.
Those of us who once owned thirsts rapidly are becoming reconciled to
the prospect of seeing about every other man in this country established
in the role of his brother’s keeper--not his barkeeper, perish the
thought--but the sort of keeper who keeps his charges locked up in an
iron barred cage and whacks them across the nose with a steel rod of
sumptuary discipline should they manifest a desire once in a while to
indulge in a little personal liberty.

It has become the custom for many police departments to resort to
underhanded methods in obtaining evidence wherewith to bring guilty
persons to trial for certain offences, the plan adopted being the
employment of what is commonly known as “stool pigeons”--go-betweens who
act in direct conjunction with the police. Concerning those who allow
themselves to be so employed there is little to be said other than that
they are not fit for decent society. It is a sneaking way of securing
a living and those who lend themselves to it ought to be ostracized by
citizens who believe in conforming to the ordinary decencies of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moral reformers are altogether too ambitious. They want to abolish vice
but they cannot do it. Vice is not crime, although the two things are
often confounded. The word “vice” literally means a fault or error. A
crime is a deliberate violation of the law of God or man.

Why should we be so serious and so violent in our attitude toward human
vice? The root of the evil is in the weakness or wickedness of human
nature. What is needed is to invigorate humanity with that moral strength
which resists the inroads of vice. There are periods in the history of
every nation when certain forms of vice are particularly flagrant. This
was so when civilized Greece had lost her pristine manliness. It was
so when pagan Rome was near her fall. It was so, unhappily, in England
in the nineties of the last century, which saw the popularity of such
literary and artistic decadents as Oscar Wilde and Aubrey Beardsley.
Wise reformers will not ever deceive themselves by thinking that they
can eradicate vice. They will try to lessen vice by moral suasion and by
removing the economic causes which are the promoters of evil living. To
put wretched people into jail is not the best way to reform them. It is
better to make them see that a life of virtue pays better than a life of
vice. This may be a low utilitarian standard, but it will appeal to those
who are altogether guided by considerations of profit or loss.

       *       *       *       *       *

The alimentary canal of the business world needs a physic. It’s the same
in business as with the human system, when things get clogged. We’ve been
gorging the system of the business world until its tripe needs scraping.
We’ve kept the hopper too full for a healthy elimination, and we need
calomel and rhubarb for a change. Capital has allowed its cormorant-like
propensities to assume the proportions of a boa constrictor in trying to
swallow not only the calf but the whole herd. Labor, following closely in
the wake of capital and profiting by its example, has pulled the bridle
off of the horse and started it down the road of reason for a head-on
collision with the captain of industry, who is stepping on the tail
of his big Packard, and both will be injured. Cornering the earth and
setting the price of all things required for man’s welfare has come home
to roost in demands for wages double and treble what they used to be, and
both capital and labor must be purged of this overload on the liver of
righteousness or the undertaker will have an unusually thriving business
very soon.

The tendency of present-day writers and authors of fiction stories to
deal in suggestiveness is perhaps explained in the popularity of the
magazines which cater to these outpourings. Gouverneur Morris is one of
these, and who can say that Mr. Morris is not one of the foremost writers
of the day? In his latest masterpiece, “The Wild Goose,” which appeared
recently in Hearst’s, he writes, for instance:

One of the shoulder-straps of her night-gown had slipped so that Diana’s
left breast was almost wholly bare. At her husband’s next words she
hastily pulled the night-gown back into place, as she might have done if
he had stepped suddenly into view.

“I could crawl to you on my hands and knees,” he said, “if I could lay my
head on your breast just one little moment.”

“Frank,” she exclaimed, “I am so sorry! But please, please--this is
no time to discuss what’s been and gone and happened. Do go back to
bed.... Count the sheep going over the hurdle.... Don’t you know I’d do
anything--anything--anything--except the things I can’t do?...”

There was a long silence. Then the man spoke again.

“Do have pity,” he said, “for Christ’s sake!”

       *       *       *       *       *

Then we have Arthur Somers Roche who quite often reveals much truth
in his fiction. Writing recently in the Cosmopolitan, Roche, perhaps
unconsciously, reveals a time-worn trick of the woman of the street in
“working” a male victim. He writes:

The difficulty with the Waiters’ Union had resulted in the engaging of
girls as waitresses at the Central. An extremely pretty girl had just
served Mr. Dabney with something. Inspiration had come to him as he
started to tip her.

“Worth just fifty cents, m’dear, if I put it in your hand. Worth five
dollars if I put it in your stocking. What say?”

The waitress essayed coyness, but failed in her endeavor. Five dollars
was five dollars. She turned slightly to one side; her skirt was raised;
into her stocking-top Dabney slipped the five-dollar bill.

No invention of modern history has ever been acclaimed with the
enthusiasm that greeted Mr. Dabney’s strikingly original idea. There
was a yell from Mr. Ladd’s table; as explanation shot about the room,
hilarity reached its highest pitch. Immediately a dozen girls stood close
to tables, while unsteady hands that held bills fumbled at the tops of
stockings.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
    How did your brewing do?
    It has the smell, and kicks like hell,
    But tastes like rotten glue.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pass Her a Palm Fan

“What sort of tree is that?” queried a Chicago girl, touring California.

“Fig tree,” replied her escort.

“My goodness, I thought the leaves were larger.”

       *       *       *       *       *

A. W. O. L. means, according to officers who ought to know, “After Women
Or Liquor.” Usually it’s both.




_Smokehouse Poetry_


The Passing of Old Smokehouse

    When memory keeps me company and moves to smiles or tears,
    A weather-beaten object looms through the mist of years,
    Behind the house and barn it stood, a half a mile or more,
    And hurrying feet a path had made, straight to its swinging door.
    Its architecture was a type of simple classic art,
    But in the tragedy of life it played a leading part;
    And oft the passing traveler drove slow and heaved a sigh
    To see the modest hired girl slip out with glances shy.

    We had our posey garden that the women loved so well.
    I loved it, too, but better still I loved the stronger smell
    That filled the evening breezes so full of homely cheer,
    And told the night-o’ertaken tramp that human life was near.
    On lazy August afternoons it made a little bower,
    Delighted, where my grandsire sat and whiled away an hour.
    For there the summer morning its very cares entwined,
    And berry bushes reddened in the steaming soil behind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Poor Girlie

    My parents told me not to smoke;
        I don’t.
    Nor listen to a naughty joke;
        I don’t.
    They told me it was wrong to wink
    At handsome men, or even think
    About intoxicating drink;
        I don’t.

    To dance or flirt was very wrong;
        I don’t.
    Wild girls chase men and wine and song;
        I don’t.
    I kiss no men, not even one--
    In fact, I don’t know how it’s done;
    You wouldn’t think I have much fun--
        I don’t.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hunting the Wily Pole Cat

(As told by a French-Canadian).

    I’m hunt de bear, I’m hunt de rat
      Sometimes I’m hunt de cat;
    Las week I’m tak ma ax an go
      To hunt de skunk pole cat.

    Ma fren Bill says hees ver good fur,
      Same time good for eat,
    So I tell ma wife, “I get fur coat
      Same time get some meat.”

    I walk, one, two, three, four mile.
      I feel one awful smell--
    I theenk that skunk hees gone and died
      And fur coat’s gone to hal.

    Bime-by I get up ver ver close,
      I raise ma ax up high--
    Dat gaddum skunk he up and plunk,
      Trow something in ma eye.

    Sacre blu; I tink ahm blin--
      Gee Cri! Ah cannot see,
    Ah run aroun and roun and roun
      Till bump in gaddum tree.

    Bime-bye I drop de ax
      An light out for de shack
    I tink about a milyun skunk
      Hees climb upon ma back.

    Ma wife she meet me at de door,
      She sick on me de dog,
    She say, “You no sleep here tonight,
      Go out and sleep wit hog.”

    I try to get in hog pen,
      Gee Cri, now what you tink,
    Dat gaddum hog no stan for dat
      On count of awful stink.

    So I no hunt de skunk no more
      To get hees fur and meat;
    For if hees breath he smell so bad,
      Gee Cri! what if he speet.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Girl with the Blue Velvet Band

    In that city of wealth, beauty and fashion;
    Dear old Frisco, where I first saw the light,
    And the many frolics that I had there
    Are still fresh in my memory tonight.

    One evening while out for a ramble;
    Here or there without thought or design,
    I chanced on a young girl tall and slender,
    On the corner of Kearney and Pine.

    On her face was the first flush of nature,
    And bright eyes seemed to expand;
    While her hair fell in rich, brilliant masses,
    Was entwined in a Blue Velvet Band.

    To a house of gentle ruination,
    She invited me with a sweet smile;
    She seemed so ready, inviting;
    That I thought I would tarry awhile.

    She then shared with me a collection
    Of wines of an excellent brand,
    And conversed in politest language;
    This girl with the Blue Velvet Band.

    After lunch, to a well-kept apartment,
    We repaired to the third floor above;
    And I thought myself truly in heaven,
    Where reigneth the goddess of love.

    Her lady’s taste was resplendent,
    From the graceful arrangement of things;
    From the pictures that stood on the bureau,
    To a little bronze Cupid with wings.

    But what struck me the most was an object
    Designed by an artistic hand;
    ’Twas the costly “lay-out” of a hop-fiend,
    And that fiend was my Blue Velvet Band.

    On a pile of soft robes and pillows;
    She reclined, I declare, on the floor,
    Then we both hit the pipe and I slumbered,
    I ponder it over and o’er.

    ’Tis months since the craven arm grasped me,
    And in bliss did my life glide away;
    From opium to “dipping” and thieving,
    She artfully led day by day.

    One evening, coming home wet and dreary,
    With the swag from a jewelry store;
    I heard the soft voice of my loved one,
    As I gently opened the door.

    “If you’ll give me a clue to convict him,”
    Said a stranger, in tones soft and grand,
    “You’ll then prove to me that you love me”;
    “It’s a go,” said my Blue Velvet Band.

    Ah! How my heart filled with anger,
    At woman, so fair, false and vile,
    And to think that I once true adored her;
    Brought to my lips a mock smile.

    All ill-gotten gains we had squandered,
    And my life was hers to command;
    Betrayed and deserted for another--
    Could this be my Blue Velvet Band?

    Just a few moments before I was hunted
    By the cops, who wounded me, too.
    And my temper was none the sweetest,
    As I swung myself into their view.

    And the copper, not liking the glitter
    Of the “44” Colt in my hand;
    Hurriedly left through the window,
    Leaving me with my Blue Velvet Band.

    Had she been true when I met her,
    Great future for us was in store,
    For I was an able mechanic,
    And honest and square to the core.

    What happened to me I will tell you;
    I was “ditched” for a desperate crime;
    There was hell in a bank about midnight,
    And my pal was shot down in his prime.

    As a convict of hard reputation,
    Ten years of hard grind I did land,
    And I often thought of the pleasures
    I had with my Blue Velvet Band.

    One night as bed time was ringing
    I was standing close to the bars
    I fancied I heard a girl singing
    Far out in the ocean of stars.

    Her voice had the same touch of sadness
    I knew that but one could command,
    It had the same thrill of gladness
    As that of my Blue Velvet Band.

    Dear pals, when my “hitch” is completed,
    Back to Frisco I’ll journey again;
    Where my chances are worth a few dollars--
    All the way from a thousand to ten.

    Once again I will try to live honest;
    Though I go to some far distant land,
    And bid adios to dear Frisco
    And the girl with the Blue Velvet Band.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Little Red God

    Here’s a little red song to the god of guts,
    Who dwells in palaces, brothels, huts;
    The little Red God with the craw of grit;
    The god who never learned how to quit;
    He is neither a fool with a frozen smile,
    Or a sad old toad in a cask of bile;
    He can dance with a shoe-nail in his heel
    And never a sign of his pain reveal;
    He can hold a mob with an empty gun
    And turn a tragedy into fun;
    Kill a man in a flash, a breath,
    Or snatch a friend from the claws of death;
    Swallow the pill of assured defeat
    And plan attack in his slow retreat;
    Spin the wheel till the numbers dance,
    And bite his thumb at the god of Chance;
    Drink straight water with whisky-soaks,
    Or call for liquor with temperance folks;
    Tearless stand at the graven stone,
    Yet weep in the silence of night, alone;
    Worship a sweet, white virgin’s glove,
    Or teach a courtesan how to love;
    Dare the dullness of fireside bliss,
    Or stake his soul for a wanton’s kiss;
    Blind his soul to a woman’s eyes
    When she says she loves and he knows she lies;
    Shovel dung in the city mart
    To earn a crust for his chosen art;
    Build where the builders all have failed,
    And sail the seas that no man has sailed;
    Run a tunnel or dam a stream,
    Or damn the men who financed the dream;
    Tell a pal what his work is worth,
    Though he lost his last best friend on earth;
    Lend the critical monkey-elf
    A razor--hoping he’ll kill himself;
    Wear the garments he likes to wear,
    Never dreaming that people stare;
    Go to church if his conscience wills,
    Or find his own--in the far, blue hills.

    He is kind and gentle, or harsh and gruff;
    He is tender as love--or he’s rawhide tough;
    A rough-necked rider in spurs and chaps,
    Or well-groomed son of the town--perhaps;
    And this is the little Red God I sing,
    Who cares not a wallop for anything
    That walks or gallops, that crawls or struts,
    No matter how clothed--if it hasn’t guts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Me for the Cave Man

By Charles C. Walts.

    I want a Cave-man rugged and tough
    To bite my neck and treat me rough.
    To hold me whether I screech or bluff;
    Me for the Cave-man stuff!

    I want a Cave-man who can pick me up,
    Slam me around like an ornery pup,
    Out of his hand I would eat and sup--
    Me for the Cave-man stuff!

    I want a Cave-man when I’ve the blues
    To take me and shake me out of my shoes,
    To swear by note in lurid hues--
    Me for the Cave-man stuff.

    I want a Cave-man just for luck,
    I’ll not be any sissy’s “duck,”
    I’m no “honey” or any such truck--
    Me for the Cave-man stuff!

       *       *       *       *       *

The Profiteer

By George D. Brewer

    When God made the buzzard, the toad and the snake;
        As well as the worm and the rat,
    He stirred what was left of the entrails and ends,
        In an air-tight asbestos vat.
    From this corrupt mass of intestines and muck
        He skimmed the most rancid, I hear,
    And took it away to a corner in hell
        And from it produced a food profiteer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Explosion of Pedigreed Cat

(With Apologies to Captain Billy’s “Explosion of Pedigreed Bull”)

    A Persian kitty, perfumed and fair,
    Strayed out through the kitchen door for air,
    When a Tom Cat, lean and lithe and strong
    And dirty and yellow came along.

    He sniffed at the perfumed Persian cat,
    As she strutted about with much eclat,
    And thinking a bit of time to pass,
    He whispered: “Kiddo, you sure have class.”

    “That’s fitting and proper,” was her reply
    As she arched the whiskers over her eye,
    “I’m ribboned, I sleep in a pillow of silk
    And daily they bathe me in certified milk.”

    “Yet we’re never contented with what we’ve got
    I try to be happy, but happy I’m not.
    And I should be joyful, I should, indeed,
    For I certainly am highly pedigreed.”

    “Cheer up,” said the Tom Cat, with a smile,
    “And trust your new found friend a while.
    You need to escape from your back yard fence;
    My dear, all you need is experience.”

    New joys of life he then unfurled,
    As he told her tales of the outside world,
    Suggesting at last, with a luring laugh,
    A trip for the two down the “Primrose Path.”

    The morning after the night before
    The “Cat Came Back” at the hour of four,
    The look in her innocent eyes had went
    But the smile on her face was the smile of content.

    And in the after days when children came
    To the Persian kitty of pedigreed fame,
    They weren’t Persian--they were black and tan,
    And she told them their pa was a traveling man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Summer Idyl

    The dragon-flies are on the wing--
        Oh, would some power command ’em
    To fly like any decent thing,
        Instead of traveling tandem!

       *       *       *       *       *

Bomb, Bomb, Bomb

    We were bombed last night, we were bombed the night before
    And we’re gonna be bombed tonight as we were never bombed before;
    When we’re bombed, we’re as scared as we can be,
    They can bomb the whole damned army if they don’t bomb me!

                    CHORUS

        They’re over us, they’re over us,
        One little cave for the four of us;
        Glory be to God there are no more of us
        Or they’d bomb the whole damned crew!

       *       *       *       *       *

Wild Woman

    If she drinks, we have taught her.
        If she smokes, we showed her how.
    If she has any bad habits,
        What’s the use to knock her now?

    For God made man, and God made woman,
        Both on a different plan.
    So if women do go wrong,
        It’s done by us, the man.

       *       *       *       *       *

It Used to Be

    Booze, booze, you’re my guest.
    You often keep me from my rest;
    You often make my friends my foes;
    You often make me wear old clothes;
    But as you are so near my nose--
    Tip her up, pals, and down she goes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Memory

By Oscar C. Williams.

    When I review the days we spent up there
    Upon Youth’s mountain-top, when we had thrilled
    To the throbbing of a love that God had willed,
    And sipped together joyously the rare,
    Rich strangeness of the brimming hours and fair--
    When I review all this, those days so filled
    With life, I realize how much was spilled.
    We did not mind, we had so much to spare!

       *       *       *       *       *

Friend Wife

    Here’s to the girl I love the best.
    I’ve kissed her without ’em
    And I’ve kissed her dressed;
    I’ve kissed her sitting
    And I’ve kissed her lying,
    And--Gol darn her soul--
    If she had wings I’d kiss her flying.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hold Fast

    Poet, never chase the dream.
        Laugh yourself and turn away.
    Mask your hunger, let it seem
        Small matter if he come or stay;
    But when he nestles in your hand at last,
    Close up your fingers tight and hold him fast.

                                                 --Robert Graves.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam’s Girl

By Charles C. Walts

    Sam’s girl is tall and slender;
    My girl is fat and low.

    Sam’s girl wears silks and satins;
    My girl wears calico.

    Sam’s girl is swift and speedy;
    My girl demure and good.

    Do you think I’d swap for Sam’s girl?
    You know darn well I would!

       *       *       *       *       *

Good Night

    You sing a little song or two,
        You have a little chat,
    You make a little candy fudge
        And then you take your hat.

    You hold her hand and say “good night,”
        As sweetly as you can--
    Ain’t that a heluva an evening
        For a great big healthy man?

       *       *       *       *       *

Twentieth Century Jazz

By Carrie Blaine Yeiser

    I ain’t a-comin’ back
      Till I know why,
    I ain’t a-goin to live
      Where I have to die!

    Man drifts to earth
      Like a summer cloud--
    Next comes the hearse
      And a linen shroud.

    Nailed in a box,
      Served to the worms,
    ’Thout bein’ consulted
      Nor asked to make terms.

    This thing o’ livin’
      An’ dyin’ again,
    Is same as a hog
      Cooped up in a pen.

    He’s got just so long
      To wallow in swill,
    So he grunts about--
      Never gettin’ his fill.

    Then his light is put out
      An’ he’s served in chops,
    On a linen cloth
      To a bunch o’ wops.

    So, I won’t be squeezed into a body again
    Till I know the wherefore, why, an’ when.
    An’ I reckon--time I grow that wise,
    I’ll be headin’ for the gates o’ Paradise.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Answer

    Why is it folks are drinking more
    Since Prohibition than before?
    The reason’s easy to perceive,
    The same old Snake that tempted Eve
    With the Forbidden Fruit to play
    Is on the job again today,
    And pious folk who never took
    A drop in all their lives, now look
    Upon the wine when it is red
    Because it is prohibited!

       *       *       *       *       *

The Old Dog

    I’ve led a wild life,
        I’ve earned all I’ve spent.
    I’ve paid all I’ve borrowed,
        I’ve lost all I’ve lent.

    I loved a woman,
        And then came the end.
    Get a good dog, boys,
        He’ll be your friend.




_Pasture Pot Pourri_


A bumble bee backed up to me and pushed.

       *       *       *       *       *

When things come to a head it will be some tale.

       *       *       *       *       *

She--I’ll have you understand I got my musical education from abroad.

He--I got worse than that from abroad.

       *       *       *       *       *

It Isn’t What You Used to Was

    Here’s to the man of forty and past,
    Who’s lived his young life and lived it fast;
    And here’s to his wife of twenty-four,
    Who kisses him sweetly and coaxes for more;
    But all that he’ll do is to buzz and buzz
    And tell what a guy he used to was.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Oi, Oi, Ikey, I’ve got a joke on you. You forgot to pull your vindow
curtain down last night and I could see you and your vife all de time.”

“No, No. Abie, the joke’s on you. I vasn’t home at all last night.”

       *       *       *       *       *

    When I was young and had some sense,
    I tried to jump a barb wire fence.

                                      --Mascot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kissing a woman is like taking olives out of a bottle--get the first one
and the rest come easy.

       *       *       *       *       *

That Famous Lullaby

    Sleep, baby, sleep,
      You’re mama’s pet;
    Though your father voted dry,
      You were always wet.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has been said that the only possible way to get some men to the front
is by kicking them in the rear, which reminds us of the Russian Jewish
battalion in the recent Polish invasion that was cut off in the front
while running to the rear.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few months ago the girls ran away from a drunken man--now they run
after him to see where he got it.

       *       *       *       *       *

You tell ’em, locomotive; you’ve got a tender behind you.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arabella: “Children are such an expense nowadays, I don’t see why you
have so many.”

Mrs. Murphy: “Well, you know there are moments in the lives of all great
men when they don’t care a darn for expenses.”

       *       *       *       *       *

    Born in Kentucky,
    Raised in Tennessee,
    Won’t somebody come
    And shimmie with me.

                       --Shakesbeer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Youngblood, arrested in St. Paul, on trial:

Police Judge--“Who brought you here?”

Youngblood--“Two policemen.”

Judge--“Drunk, I suppose?”

Y. B.--“Yes, both of them.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Father said: “My boy, when I was your age down on the farm, I retired
with the chickens.”

Son replied: “That’s nothing, dad, so do I.”

       *       *       *       *       *

She may be a moonshiner’s daughter, but I love her “still.”

       *       *       *       *       *

    Oh, my daddy’s in the back yard
      A-sawing a log;
    Baby’s in the cradle
      A-walking the dawg,
    Oh! Honey, how long must I wait
      Shall I get you now
    Or must I hesitate?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Say a kind word for Patrick O’Toole
    He borrowed a feather to tickle a mule.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Here’s to the girl with the high-heeled shoes
    Who eats my lobsters and drinks my booze
    And taxies home to mother to snooze.
    I’ll marry her yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Too Obvious

Sunday School Teacher--Which bird did Noah send out of the Ark to find
out what the weather was like?

Small Girl--Please, teacher, a weather-cock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Foolish Rimes

    There was a young lady from France
    Who got on the train by chance,
      Along came her sister
      Who immediately kissed her,
    And the “brakie” went off in a trance.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is never too hot to dance, if you are that young.




_Limericks_


    A beautiful queen named Miss Aster,
    Wore a bathing suit, tight as a plaster;
      She sneezed a big sneeze
      And felt a cool breeze,
    And knew she had met with disaster.

       *       *       *       *       *

    There was an old fellow named Fife,
    Who had a most wonderful wife,
      But he went to the “Follies”
      And winked at the dollies,
    And now she is off him for life.

       *       *       *       *       *

    There was a young lady from Natchez,
    Who fell in some nettleweed patches,
      With a heart full of gloom
      She sits in her room
    And scratches and scratches and scratches.

       *       *       *       *       *

    A giddy old maid, Miss O’Hare,
    Caught a man in her room unaware,
      “Come from under that bed,”
      She emphatically said,
    “And escape from this room if you dare!”

       *       *       *       *       *

    A doughboy who’d just come from France,
    At the clothes of the girls looked askance,
      He’d killed many a Hun
      And from bombs hadn’t run,
    But the skirts made his breath come in pants.

       *       *       *       *       *

    There once was a girlie from Litchen,
    Stood scratching herself in the kitchen,
      Her father said, “Rose,
      “Coots, I suppose”;
    “Yes, daddy, dear, and they’re itchen.”




_Classified Ads_


Maybe He Liked Stewed Ox Tail

(Sign on Minnesota Farmer’s Fence)

NOTIS: If any man’s or woman’s cows gets into these here oats, his or her
tail will be cut off as the case may be.

       *       *       *       *       *

Honesty in Advertising

(Sign, Casey’s Store, Golden Valley, Minn.)

Annual sale now on; don’t go elsewhere and be cheated; come here.

       *       *       *       *       *

Everybody Likes a Sailor

(From the Southampton Times)

Wanted, by a respectable girl, her passage to New York; willing to take
care of children and a good sailor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Preparing for the Flood

(From the Alton Eagle)

Wanted small cottage for a small family with good drainage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why the Street Car Stalled

(From the Dubuque News)

Will the person who took pair of pants off Main street car Friday please
return to this office?

       *       *       *       *       *

Why the Car?

(From the Buffalo Courier)

Wanted--Permanent gentleman boarder, with or without car, in refined
ladies’ own private home, with garage. Address Refined Home, Courier.

       *       *       *       *       *

Full in a Full Cellar

(From the Keokuk Gate City)

For Sale--A good modern house on the south side with eight rooms and full
cellar for $2,600. Van Pappelendam Brothers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Power of the Press

(Lusk Herald)

Owing to the lack of space and the rush of the Herald’s prize contest
several births and deaths will be postponed until next week, or until a
later date.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some Prefer the Rear Veranda

(From the Lakefield Pilot)

House wanted by lady with large front porch and spacious rear veranda;
sun parlor and no bedbugs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unnecessary Qualification

(From Johnson (S. C.) Leader)

Wanted--Girls to strip in a tobacco factory.

       *       *       *       *       *

If You Lamp Any Let Us Know

(From the Philadelphia Ledger)

Watches for women of superior design and perfection of movement. Bailey,
Banks & Biddle Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

New Fashioned Men Apply

(From the Detroit Free Press)

Room with two meals daily in one of the prettiest private homes in city
for one permanent gentleman with every convenience imaginable.

       *       *       *       *       *

What’s the Fare?

(From Petaluma (Calif.) Courier)

I want to dispose of a lot of fancy chickens. Always home nights.




_Jest Jokes and Jingles_


The Wrong Husband

A lady boarded a crowded train and rushing up behind a bald-headed man,
kissed him on the top of his head. He turned to look at her, and in an
embarrassed and flustrated tone, she said: “I--I beg your pardon. I
thought you were my husband. Your head behind looks just like his behind.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The nice things of life are not always naughty, but the naughty things
are invariably nice.

       *       *       *       *       *

    In the Garden of Eden Adam slept;
    Into his arms a chicken crept.
    A voice said to Adam: “This is Eve”--
    And Adam replied: “I’ve got you, Steve.”

       *       *       *       *       *

When we hear a woman say that all men are alike we wonder how she found
it out.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Little drops of water,
      That we used to think
    Were simply made for chasers,
      Are now the whole damn drink.

       *       *       *       *       *

Did You Ever?

A furrier was selling a coat to a woman customer. “Yes, ma’am,” he said,
“I guarantee this to be genuine skunk fur that will wear for years.”

“But suppose I get it wet in the rain?” asked the woman. “What effect
will the water have on it? What will happen to it then? Won’t it spoil?”

“Madam,” answered the furrier, “I have only one answer: Did you ever hear
of a skunk carrying an umbrella?”

       *       *       *       *       *

“So you deceived your husband,” said the judge gravely.

“On the contrary, my lord, he deceived me. He said he was going out of
town and he didn’t go.”

       *       *       *       *       *

He was a rather feminine young man, but he got into an argument with his
male companion. Said the other fellow:

“Do you know, a company in Cincinnati named a soap after you?”

“No, is that right?” asked the feminine youth, in a high-pitched voice,
“What is it called?”

“Fairy-soap,” was the reply.

       *       *       *       *       *

A young lady on whose lap a bug had just lit, exclaimed:

“Oh, look at that funny little bug; what kind of a bug is it?”

Her Escort: “That’s a lady bug.”

Young Lady: “My but you have good eyesight!”

       *       *       *       *       *

Oh, Tempore, Oh H----

Wouldn’t Omar Khayam be sore if he was here. He’d change his immortal
“Rubiyait” to this:

    Beneath a bough, a can of near beer,
    And thou--

       *       *       *       *       *

Here’s another ditty from the Jazz Review:

    Coffee in the Pantry,
    Sugar in the Bowl,
    Mother’s Down Town
    Dancing Jellyroll.

       *       *       *       *       *

She came down to breakfast very late and her mother scanned her severely.

“Did that man kiss you last night?” she asked.

“Now, mother,” said the sweet young thing, blushing, “do you suppose he
came all the way from the Great Lakes to hear me sing?”

       *       *       *       *       *

    If the ocean was beer and I was a duck,
    I’d dive to the bottom and never come up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Negro Woman to Drug Clerk: “Misto drug clerk, do you all exchange things
here?”

Drug Clerk: “Why, yes madam, we do.”

Negro Woman: “Well I was jist wonderin’ if yo’ would take back this
here good fer nuffin rubber thing an’ give me a bottle of Mellen’s food
instead.”

       *       *       *       *       *

A girl’s heart is like her vanity bag--overflowing with tender little
souvenirs of love; a man’s is like his pipe--carefully emptied after each
“flame” has gone out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Second Spasm

    Said the big red rooster to the little brown hen:
    “Meet me at the smoke-house at half past ten”;
    Said the little brown hen to the big red rooster:
    “I’ll not be there--in fact, I refuster”;
    Said the big red rooster with a smirk of pride:
    “Huh! I should worry, I’ll go outside”;
    Said the little brown hen as she left on a run:
    “So will I, too, you son of a gun.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Footman: “My lord, a lady waits without.”

Lord Wunckleberry: “Without what?”

“Without food or clothing, your lordship.”

“Well, give her some food and send her in.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Those Kilkenny Kats

A story is told of an agent who accompanied a prospective buyer to the
vast granite quarries south of St. Cloud, Minn. While there a cat passed
them and seemed to be in a hurry. The P. B. noticed it, but said nothing.
In a few moments another cat appeared and ran in the same direction. The
P. B. looked at the agent, but he seemed to be paying no attention to the
cats. When the third cat finally flew by and vanished in the distance,
the P. B. could no longer withhold his curiosity.

“What in the world is the matter with those cats?” he asked.

“Nothing the matter with the cats,” answered the agent, unconcernedly,
“but it’s nine miles to dirt.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Most women are pure and chaste--the less pure the more chased.




_Our Rural Mail Box_


Yes, God Bless ’Em

Skipper Bill:

May you grant me the privilege of expostulating to the tune of a jazz
strain, which is indicative of life, the melody of the living and the
nemesis of the dead, and dying.

Under the cloak of religion there are too many one-cylinder brains
functioning to the detriment of our country, creed and constitution,
and the space you allotted to the vituperations of an ecclesiastic ass,
yclept Rev. J. Herbden Walters, was just two pages too much.

Women have always been enigmas so far as man is concerned, and it doesn’t
require any brand of spiritual interpretation to convince us mortals that
such a condition is in keeping with Allah’s plan of things.

No man who ever fell for the charms of a woman can point an accusing
finger at her. When she makes herself “sweet to look upon” she is but
fulfilling her destiny on this earth, and the power of man was created
for the sole purpose of battering down her resistence--that’s God’s law;
it’s the same in all forms of life.

No, Bill, his dose is diarrhoetic and we are not seeking purgatives. His
mentality is sadly lacking and his virility could well be questioned.
Personally, such festers on our social cosmos sort o’ rankles me, for I
try to atune myself to the Greater Law.

In closing, and ere I sign my John Henry to these sentiments, let me
enlist the eloquence of Alexander Smith, whose brain gave birth to these
lines:

    “The saddest thing that can befall a soul,
    Is when it loses faith in God and woman.”

                         One of the male specie,

                                                             E. W. WELTY.

1819 West Seventh St., Los Angeles, Cal.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Mary D.=--No, Mary. Do not worry. Bank examiners will not inspect your
“First National.” I fear when we reach that day there will be more
candidates for bank examiner than for president of this good old U. S. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Knuts Gazoobus=--If you are certain your pet skunk has fleas there is
but one remedy I can suggest and that is the tying of a good hefty chunk
of dynamite to the tail of the animal. I’ve been up against the polecat
of Northern Minnesota and the flea of dear old Frisco and the devil save
me from meeting both at the same time.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Beautiful Katie=--This is the army recipe for hash: See that the dog is
a fairly fat one. Hit him over the head with an axe and allow him to boil
three hours. Chop into mince meat and mix in a lot of potatoes, onions
and sage. Serve hot. Cats take only 20 minutes.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dan M.=--Should you accidentally upset a cup of coffee on the
tablecloth, do not stare at it in consternation and exclaim “This is a
hell of a note!” Laugh it off pleasantly and apologize to the hostess.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Daffy Dill=--Your question is rather absurd and my answer is NO, I have
never heard a porcupine for its mate. But I have seen a gopher go for a
gopher.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Oliver Towne=--I can’t quite agree with you as to the world’s greatest
historical event. How about the time that Antony made a date with
Cleopatra?

       *       *       *       *       *

=J. C. R.=--Yes, you are correct. The women’s wearing apparel nowadays
are held up by nothing more than a string of beads on one side and the
kindness of heaven on the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Happy Harriet=--It is quite true that a teakettle full of water sings,
but whoinel wants to be a teakettle.

       *       *       *       *       *

=James B.=--I am not positive as to the number of years the government
has been trying to obliterate moonshining in Kentucky. I do know,
however, that they’re taking in lots of territory now.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hubby: “Let’s name our darling baby ‘Prohibition.’”

Wifelets: “I should say not. He’ll never be a ‘dry’.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Some Persuader

Brumbaugh--“I can’t see why Bert Kitchins married that ugly Miss
Vanderpeel. Her money would not have been an inducement to me!”

Gimble--“No? Well, her father’s shotgun might have persuaded even you.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Too Bad

Pelican: “Did you hear about the arrest of William Jennings Bryan?”

Belican: “No, what was it all about?”

Helican: “For feeling out the women delegation to see if they were wet or
dry.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Or a Second Bill Sunday

A father, wishing to satisfy himself as to the future prospects of his
son, decided to make the following test:--“Now,” he said, “I will put
here, where he will see them the first thing when he comes in, a Bible,
some money, and a bottle of whiskey. If he takes the Bible he will be
a preacher, if he takes the money he will be a business man, and if he
takes the whiskey he will be no good.” Having thus decided on the plan,
he arranged the articles and concealed himself to await the son and watch
results. Presently in came the boy, saw the money and put it in his
pocket, took up the bottle of whiskey and drank it, put the Bible under
his arm and walked out whistling. “My gracious!” exclaimed the father,
“he will soon be a United States Senator.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Doggonit

A farmer friend of mine was standing in the road with a gun tucked
under his arm and an old dog at his side. He was directly in the path
of a motor car. The chauffeur sounded his horn, but the dog did not
move--until he was struck. After that he did not move.

The automobile stopped and one of the men got out and came forward. He
had once paid a farmer $10 for killing a calf that belonged to another
farmer. This time he was wary.

“Was that your dog?”

“Yes.”

“You own him?”

“Yes.”

“Looks as if we’d killed him.”

“Certainly looks so.”

“Very valuable dog?”

“Well, not so very.”

“Will $5 satisfy you?”

“Yes.”

“Well, then, here you are.” He handed a $5 bill to the man with the gun,
and said pleasantly, “I’m sorry to have broken up your hunt.”

“I wasn’t going hunting,” replied the other as he pocketed the bill.

“Not going hunting? Then what were you doing with the dog and the gun?”

“Going down to the river to shoot the dog.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Too many women look upon a marriage certificate as a license to operate a
holdup game.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pickled Puppies

A lady entering a crowded train, requested a little boy if she might put
his basket, which he had beside him, up in the rack so that she might sit
there. He assented willingly.

A short time later the lady remarked, “Sonny, I’m afraid your pickles are
leaking.”

Little boy, disgustedly, “Them ain’t pickles, lady, them’s puppies.”

       *       *       *       *       *

    Miss Marcella had a cat,
      The cat she had a feller;
    Their backyard concerts so annoyed
      Ma made Marcella sell her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Speaking of society, we heard a good one the other night. A dude and
his lady friend were tripping lightly back from the reception room when
a rather stout lady whose gown started somewhere close to the ground
and never could get strength enough to get any nearer to her shoulders,
bumped into him. The dude was peeved and said aloud to his lady friend:
“Like Balaam’s ass, some people are always getting in the way.” The fat
dame, quick to retort, replied, “You are wrong. It was the angel who got
in the way and the ass that spoke.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Sayings of the Famous

Rastus Johnsing--“Mandy, the only thing that ever kept me a good man was
your won’t power and my will power.”

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: BATHING BEAUTIES!]

Real photographs of the famous Mack Sennett water nymphs.

Just the thing for your den.

Size 3½×5½.

Positively the best on the market.

Assortment of 6 for 25 cents or 25 for $1.00.

Send money order or stamps.

Foreign money not accepted unless exchange is included.

Egbert Brothers, Dept. W. B., 303 Buena Vista Street, LOS ANGELES,
CALIFORNIA

_Wholesale agents wanted everywhere in the U. S. Write for wholesale
terms._

       *       *       *       *       *

_If BULL Was Music The Whiz Bang Might be Called a Brass Band_

       *       *       *       *       *

_Everywhere!_

_WHIZ BANG is on sale at all leading hotels, news stands, on trains, 25
cents single copies, or may be ordered direct from the publisher at 30
cents single copies; two-fifty a year._

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Captain Billy's Whiz Bang, Vol. 2. No.
13, October, 1920, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPTAIN BILLY'S WHIZ BANG ***

***** This file should be named 55790-0.txt or 55790-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/5/7/9/55790/

Produced by David Edwards and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

